README.md, before:

# detLLM
detLLM helps you verify whether an LLM inference setup is reproducible and gives you a minimal repro pack when it is not.

detLLM measures variance across repeated runs and across batch sizes, and explains divergences without overpromising.

TODO: Add logo wordmark.
TODO: Add demo GIF.
TODO: Add badges (CI, license, version).

## GPU caveats

GPU determinism is conditional. Kernel selection, driver versions, and nondeterministic ops can change outputs even with greedy decoding. detLLM will report variance, but strict guarantees depend on backend capabilities and environment controls.

## Quickstart

```bash
pip install -e .
detllm check --backend hf --model <model_id> --prompt "Hello" --tier 1 --runs 5 --batch-size 1
```

Note: some shells (like zsh) require quotes when installing extras, e.g. `pip install -e '.[test]'`.

## Verification

See [docs/verification.md](docs/verification.md) for the full local verification procedure and expected outputs.

## Tiers

- Tier 0: artifacts + deterministic diff/report (no equality guarantees)
- Tier 1: repeatability across runs for a fixed batch size
- Tier 2: Tier 1 + score/logprob equality (capability-gated)

Tier 1 guarantees repeatability only for a fixed batch size; batch invariance is measured separately.

## Artifacts (minimal repro pack)

Each run writes an `artifacts/<run_id>/` folder:

- `env.json`
- `run_config.json`
- `determinism_applied.json`
- `trace.jsonl`
- `report.json` + `report.txt`
- `diffs/first_divergence.json`

## Python API

```python
from detllm import check, run

run(
    backend="hf",
    model="distilgpt2",
    prompts=["Hello"],
    tier=1,
    out_dir="artifacts/run1",
)

report = check(
    backend="hf",
    model="distilgpt2",
    prompts=["Hello"],
    runs=3,
    batch_size=1,
    out_dir="artifacts/check1",
)

print(report.status, report.category)
```

## CLI (planned)

- `detllm env`
- `detllm run`
- `detllm check`
- `detllm diff`
- `detllm report`

## Project status

This repo is a WIP skeleton for the Milestone 0 deliverables:

- Packaging + CLI entrypoint
- CI + tests
- Base docs (LICENSE, CONTRIBUTING, CODE_OF_CONDUCT)

## Docs

- [docs/verification.md](docs/verification.md)
- [docs/determinism_boundary.md](docs/determinism_boundary.md)
- [docs/troubleshooting.md](docs/troubleshooting.md)
- [docs/vllm.md](docs/vllm.md)
- [docs/python_api.md](docs/python_api.md)
- [docs/versioning.md](docs/versioning.md)

Commit message:

docs: note tier 2 score verification

README.md, after:

# detLLM
detLLM helps you verify whether an LLM inference setup is reproducible and gives you a minimal repro pack when it is not.

detLLM measures variance across repeated runs and across batch sizes, and explains divergences without overpromising.

TODO: Add logo wordmark.
TODO: Add demo GIF.
TODO: Add badges (CI, license, version).

## GPU caveats

GPU determinism is conditional. Kernel selection, driver versions, and nondeterministic ops can change outputs even with greedy decoding. detLLM will report variance, but strict guarantees depend on backend capabilities and environment controls.

## Quickstart

```bash
pip install -e .
detllm check --backend hf --model <model_id> --prompt "Hello" --tier 1 --runs 5 --batch-size 1
```

Note: some shells (like zsh) require quotes when installing extras, e.g. `pip install -e '.[test]'`.

## Verification

See [docs/verification.md](docs/verification.md) for the full local verification procedure and expected outputs.

## Tiers

- Tier 0: artifacts + deterministic diff/report (no equality guarantees)
- Tier 1: repeatability across runs for a fixed batch size
- Tier 2: Tier 1 + score/logprob equality (capability-gated)

Tier 1 guarantees repeatability only for a fixed batch size; batch invariance is measured separately.

Tier 2 scores are captured when the backend supports stable score/logprob output. See `docs/verification.md` for how to verify scores appear in traces.

## Artifacts (minimal repro pack)

Each run writes an `artifacts/<run_id>/` folder:

- `env.json`
- `run_config.json`
- `determinism_applied.json`
- `trace.jsonl`
- `report.json` + `report.txt`
- `diffs/first_divergence.json`

## Python API

```python
from detllm import check, run

run(
    backend="hf",
    model="distilgpt2",
    prompts=["Hello"],
    tier=1,
    out_dir="artifacts/run1",
)

report = check(
    backend="hf",
    model="distilgpt2",
    prompts=["Hello"],
    runs=3,
    batch_size=1,
    out_dir="artifacts/check1",
)

print(report.status, report.category)
```

## CLI (planned)

- `detllm env`
- `detllm run`
- `detllm check`
- `detllm diff`
- `detllm report`

## Project status

This repo is a WIP skeleton for the Milestone 0 deliverables:

- Packaging + CLI entrypoint
- CI + tests
- Base docs (LICENSE, CONTRIBUTING, CODE_OF_CONDUCT)

## Docs

- [docs/verification.md](docs/verification.md)
- [docs/determinism_boundary.md](docs/determinism_boundary.md)
- [docs/troubleshooting.md](docs/troubleshooting.md)
- [docs/vllm.md](docs/vllm.md)
- [docs/python_api.md](docs/python_api.md)
- [docs/versioning.md](docs/versioning.md)
